[eerie music]
♪♪
[man 1] Arizona license.
Joseph "Lee-forn."
[man 2] Probably fake.
[man 1] Hey. He's up.
- [Joe groans]
- Oh.
Shit.
What are you doing all the way
out in LA. Mr. "Lee-forn"?
[grunts] Sightseeing.
[chuckles] He's a funny guy.
Did you think he'd be a funny guy?
Doesn't look too funny.
[grunts]
[coughing]
What are you doing here?
[groans]
[breathing raggedly]
Looking for my niece and nephew--
Billie Tsosie and Leroy Gorman.
This them?
The girl's Billie.
Man's her grandpa.
And you were looking
for them at a McNair party
with a gun?
Who?
Beno put you up to this?
I don't know any Beno.
Just looking for Billie.
She's a 16-year-old girl.
and she's a runaway.
She was at that party.
♪♪
[grunts]
If you knew she was inside
and you were looking for her.
what were you doing
across the street?
Yeah.
[grunts] Son of a bitch!
Okay. I'm a cop.
I'm a cop.
Lieutenant Leaphorn.
Navajo Tribal Police.
Have somebody from your
field office call the BIA.
They'll confirm it.
♪♪
Look… [sighs]
There were two murders
on the reservation.
Witness ran out here-- Billie.
That's who we're trying to find.
Maybe you're looking
for her. too. huh?
Is that why you had
a camera set up?
Maybe we can help each other.
♪♪
If you really want to help.
you'll go back to Arizona
before someone puts you in the ground.
♪♪
[grunts]
Son of a bitch.
♪♪
[moody guitar music]
[car horns blare]
[flames crackling]
♪♪
[soft dramatic music]
[phone rings]
Joe?
Hi.
I. um…
[groans softly]
I'll get you in for an X-ray.
No. just-- I'll take some ice.
I got to get back.
Hold it.
- [Joe groans]
- [chuckles] I moved 600 miles away.
and I'm still patching you up.
It's not like I knew you'd be here.
Come on. Joe.
There are four other
hospitals within ten miles.
Well. none of those
would take my CIB.
Leave that on until it's warm.
And get more ice. Wrap it.
Then come back for an X-ray.
Are you happy here?
I like the city.
I like this hospital.
I like knowing what I do
makes a difference.
that when people
are hurt and scared.
they can come here and feel safe.
And I like. for the first time in 30 years.
I'm not making myself sick with worry
because you're too
stubborn to get an X-ray.
♪♪
Okay.
I'll get the X-ray.
I just need to let Chee
and Bern know where I'm at.
All right?
You can use the
phone at the nurse's station.
then go to the waiting room.
They'll find you when they're ready.
[door clicks]
[door thuds]
[phone rings]
[soft dramatic music]
Hey.
You sure you don't
want to see a doctor?
Oh. I'm fine.
Sonny gave me some pills.
They're wearing off.
Are we gonna get past this?
I don't know.
Do you want to?
[door clicks]
He's done.
What'd they say?
Ah. just a bump on the head.
bruised ribs.
I'll be all right.
What happened?
Someone else
was watching that party.
I went to check it out. got jumped.
Sons of bitches got my gun.
Sonny's guys?
No. they're white guys. late thirties.
One was wiry. had a big mustache.
The other one was bigger.
He had a little baby face.
You know. I think they might
have been old friends of yours.
FBI?
Yeah. they called it "McNair party."
That mean anything to you?
Mustache guy.
Was he popping antacids?
[dramatic music]
Here you go.
[car horn honks]
[sirens blaring distantly]
Here.
- You hear from Leroy?
- No.
Sure he's in LA?
There's some rez cops looking for him.
They think he is.
Hm.
Me and Leroy got in a
fight a week and a half ago.
Something stupid.
I don't know. I thought he'd
be back in a couple of days.
He does that sometimes.
But then. I don't know.
He usually calls.
[soft dramatic music]
♪♪
Can I ask you something?
You said those guys are criminals.
What do they do?
We just got to find Leroy
before the German lady does.
Do you have any family?
♪♪
My grandpa's dead.
I never knew my dad.
And my mom. she--
she died right after I was born. so…
Leroy's the only family I got left.
♪♪
[elevator dings]
These people. they don't care about us.
They don't care about what we're doing.
And they won't lift a
finger to help local cops.
especially Indian ones.
What we have to do
is make it seem
like we're helping them.
- Cheeseburger!
- Shaw.
As I live and breathe.
- Hey. man.
- No. no. no.
[both grunt]
Last I heard. you were
working some undercover thing.
Yeah. I was. but now
I'm just a lowly beat cop
at the Navajo Tribal Police.
This is Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn
and Sergeant Bernadette Mañuelito.
We. uh. met.
How you doing. asshole?
I called the BIA.
Sorry about the mix-up.
Big cases put everyone on edge.
and this one's big.
Understood.
What's a few cracked
ribs between friends. huh?
[quirky dramatic music]
♪♪
Had to take the ammo.
Sorry about that.
This is my colleague. Frank Welles.
We're happy to chat as a favor to Chee.
but you understand there's
only so much we can share.
Course.
You've been following the
McNair business in the news?
Never heard the name
until our private van tour.
All right. well. he owns
an import/export business.
McNair Factoring. down in San Pedro.
We got a tip last year that he had
his hands in a few
less-than-legal cookie jars.
Two months ago. we finally
got enough to make the arrest.
Now he's in Men's Central awaiting trial.
but the U.S. attorney's
starting to think he might walk.
You can't make the case?
Key part of our case
is based on witness testimony.
and a couple witnesses disappeared.
And then the rest realized
they don't remember anything.
[inhales sharply]
Was Albert Gorman
one of those witnesses?
We can't give you that information.
Well. if he was. he's dead.
Hm.
He was murdered three days
ago on the Navajo reservation.
Killer's a German woman.
5'9". blonde. 40s.
Drives a green Dodge van.
See. the girl we're looking for
is a witness to the murder.
We find her.
maybe she can give you
something else to hang on McNair.
Come on. man.
We're on the same team.
Our girl is clearly
caught up in all this.
The sooner we find her.
the better it is for all of us.
This whole thing's
hanging by a thread.
Okay. everything's locked down.
I can't spare resources
chasing a 16-year-old runaway
on a tribal cop's say-so--
even a friend's.
Let us look at what you have--
surveillance photos.
known associates.
addresses. phone numbers.
And we could do the rest if you--
No.
She's going to die if we don't find her.
[tense music]
You get that. right?
♪♪
I'm sorry.
[elevator dings]
Excuse me.
Spent two years listening to stories
about that asshole's
bowling league-- two years.
And he can't even just
give us a little information?
Hey. Chee. we knew it was a long shot.
I shouldn't have come back here.
[lid squeaks]
[inhales sharply]
[sighs]
Look. our situation hasn't changed.
Billie's still looking for Leroy.
We find him. we can still find her.
Except we haven't
been able to find her.
No. we haven't.
But maybe Mike Garcia can.
[groovy upbeat music]
♪♪
Hey. man. You guys buying?
What you got?
Nah. man. not this crap.
I'll sell for half of what it's worth.
I just need the money quick.
Ain't even worth half.
[loudly] Come on. man.
I just need the money. please.
Look. man. I told you we're good.
I don't need your busted up
watch sitting--
Garcia!
- Whoo!
- Sonny?
[laughs]
You spend my money already?
No. I just-- I owe people.
Oh. you owe me is who you owe.
Hey. what happened
to you last night?
Man. I had to sleep that off.
What the hell was that shit?
Tip of the iceberg.
[inhales sharply]
Hey. listen. man.
I manage a small business.
and we're always
looking for smart guys.
You look like a smart guy. Mike.
What are you doing right now?
You're looking at it.
Let's go for a drive. unless you want
to try your luck on Rodeo.
[chuckles]
♪ Remember ♪
[doorbell jingles]
What rez you from? Hopi?
Navajo.
Right. the other one.
Did you live there
till you were deployed?
Nah. me and Mom
moved to Phoenix in high school.
New kid in school.
Bet you got all the girls.
[chuckles] I did Okay.
You got a girl now. right?
That chick I saw you with at the party.
Tawny?
No. the other one--
tall. serious looking.
I don't know. man.
I was pretty messed up.
[chuckles]
Mike Garcia. free and easy.
What can I say?
You do like girls. though. right?
Not judging.
Just want to know what kind
of ride we're taking.
[laughs]
I'm just playing with you. man!
[laughing]
Christ.
[laughs]
- [chuckles]
- Stupid.
Your mom still in Phoenix?
No.
No. she got pretty sick while I was gone.
- Lung cancer.
- Oof.
By the time IHS caught it. it was--
she always wanted
to go back to the rez.
though. before she died.
She needed help. but I couldn't--
you know. I wasn't there.
You know?
[somber music]
♪♪
You were drafted. man.
Wasn't like you had a choice.
[soft tense music]
♪♪
[clears throat softly]
[moody guitar music]
♪♪
Agent Shaw's in the parking lot.
Yeah. I see him.
♪♪
What do you want?
If you're looking for Chee. he's not here.
I was hoping to talk to you
about the German and the green van.
Do you have a minute?
♪♪
Welles and I just took over this case.
Before that. it was
a guy named Ken Upchurch.
He was a good agent. a friend.
Found him in the garage yesterday.
Car still running.
The official position
is that he was a drunk
and that his case was falling apart.
and that's it.
But you don't agree.
I knew him pretty well.
When you said
"green van" this morning.
I remember one of Ken's neighbors
saying he saw a green van parked
on the street that night.
Maybe it's the same green van.
Maybe it's not.
Maybe it was dark
and the van was brown
and this is all nothing.
but I owe it to Ken to try.
And if you can link your van to mine.
I can convince my SAC
to help look for your runaway.
♪♪
[traffic whooshing and groaning]
[tense music]
♪♪
I'm looking for a teenage girl.
- Billie Tsosie.
- I haven't seen her.
Check with the Navajo police.
They were in here yesterday.
♪♪
[siren blaring distantly]
[knocks] Tino!
It's me!
[gun clicks]
[laughs]
This one looks soft.
Mikey? Nah. he's a killer.
[dogs barking]
[quietly] Jesus. man.
What. no fries?
Last time you said they were soggy.
That don't mean I don't want 'em.
Roman said you got something.
Yeah. usual shit.
Address is…
[tense music]
♪♪
Jesus Christ. Really?
He ain't gonna be happy seeing you.
Nobody is.
Come on.
Next time. bring me
some goddamn fries.
What are we doing here?
I thought you said
you had a job for me.
This is the interview.
[in Diné] Hey. Hey boys.
I know you.
No. you must be mistaken.
No. I know you.
I remember your mother.
I remember what you did.
I remember you calling out.
mother. mother. mother.
[in English] Everything Okay?
Yeah. she's crazy.
All right. Come on. killer.
You're burning my daylight.
[door thuds]
[engine rumbles]
♪♪
[tires squeal]
[soft dramatic music]
♪♪
[breathing shakily]
Hey.
What's wrong?
Who is this?
Oh. that's Leroy's grandma.
or great grandma or something.
Bentwoman.
No. the younger one.
♪♪
His aunt.
She takes care of the old lady.
Why?
I think it's my mom.
[sniffles]
[sobs quietly]
Shicheii told me.
He told me she died
right after I was born.
He-- he told me she died.
- Holy shit.
- [crying]
They don't live that far.
If you want. we could--
Oh. my God.
Leroy.
I bet that's where Leroy is.
[shakily] Let's go.
[agent] We know he ran
some errands that night--
liquor store. dry cleaner.
Comes home with a bottle of scotch.
writes this.
Then he goes into the garage.
gets behind the wheel.
starts the engine.
No strange prints.
Nothing missing except the dog.
but he could have run off.
I don't know. maybe you guys
will see something we missed.
What's the truth?
[soft dramatic music]
I wish I knew.
♪♪
You know his shoe size?
Smaller than mine.
Swapped shoes
once at the bowling alley.
These are 11's.
- Joe.
- Yeah?
♪♪
Upchurch ever visit
the Navajo reservation?
Not that I know of.
Well. this is from
the Trading Post on the rez.
Any idea how
he could have gotten it?
♪♪
I'd like to take a look outside.
Where was the van
parked the night Upchurch died?
There.
Where at?
In front of the lamp post.
[eerie electronic rattling]
Has it rained?
Yeah. Thursday.
[eerie electronic thudding]
♪♪
It's an Army ration key.
The little twist thing
they used to open 'em up.
It's what the German eats
when she's on the job.
Found one exactly like that
on the reservation
where she was holed up
in the green van.
[tense music]
♪♪
[grunts]
That old woman got you messed up.
I'm just hungover.
I thought you said Leroy'd
be there last night.
- Thought he was.
- Well. I didn't see him.
Here's the thing.
We live in a world that
old lady can't understand.
Now. back in the day.
everything was black and white.
Now the man
promises us good homes. jobs.
makes us feel like
we're part of a team.
And he comes. scoops us up.
and sends us to Vietnam
to do his dirty work.
[exhales sharply]
I swear. you can't trust
anyone over 30.
[soft dramatic music]
- How old are you?
- 42
[laughter]
Ah. I don't know.
I go to Tino's a few times a week.
I've seen that woman
hundreds of times.
and she's never said one word to me.
You don't speak Navajo.
♪♪
We're here.
Probably won't need it.
[clicks tongue]
[door thuds]
[funky music playing in background]
♪♪
[Isaac Hayes' "Do Your Thing" playing]
♪ If the music makes you move ♪
Hey. you wait right here.
Sunshine. take care of killer for me.
♪♪
Uh. beer.
♪ If you feel like you want to make love ♪
♪ Under the stars above ♪
Thank you.
♪ Love ♪
♪ If it's something you want to say ♪
♪ And talking is the only way ♪
♪♪
Aw. Are you a horse?
'Cause of the long face?
I go on in 15. but I got time for a dance.
Mm.
I'll even give you
the early bird discount
on account of your
exceptional sense of humor.
I don't think my
girlfriend would like that.
Oh. we could ask her. Is she here?
- No.
- Then what's the matter?
Me and my girl. we're in a fight.
- Don't want to make it worse.
- Mm.
- Girl troubles.
- Yeah.
You know. I'm getting
my degree in psychotherapy.
What's her name?
Juliet.
- That make you Romeo?
- No.
[chuckles] You love her?
Yeah. I do.
She love you back?
You know. I don't know.
Her and a friend.
they lied about something big.
- Were they fooling around?
- What? No.
What then?
It's-- don't you have
to get ready or something?
Yeah. in a minute.
I want to tell you something. buttercup.
- Hm.
- There's two kinds of lies.
The kind you tell to hurt people
and the kind you tell to protect 'em.
Which one your girl tell?
[screams]
[door clicks]
[tense music]
What's going on? You Okay?
We got to go. Now.
- Gun!
- Ow!
[gunshot]
Go.
- [laughs]
- Are you hit?
Go. go. go. go!
Drive! Drive! Drive! Drive!
[suspenseful music]
[engine rumbles]
Go. go. go. go. go. go. go. go!
♪♪
Oh. my God! Oh. my God!
[tires squeal]
[gunshot]
[laughs]
[cheering]
- God damn that hurt!
- [Sonny groans]
And I just got this couch. Get a towel.
Down the hallway. bathroom.
[suspenseful music]
♪♪
Hurry up!
- [inhales sharply]
- Oh. God.
You need a doctor. man.
I don't need a doctor
wondering how I got shot.
- Just patch it up.
- You need stitches.
Go get some stitches.
Hallway. closet!
[breathing raggedly]
Agh! Damn it!
And bring me a drink!
Here.
♪♪
[Sonny groans]
[panting]
[grunts]
- [hyperventilates]
- All right. you ready?
Uh-huh.
[groans]
♪♪
It's a pretty good stitch for a war dog.
Drink up. You got a dozen more.
[hisses]
♪♪
[screams]
I had this girlfriend
when I first got down here.
She was real foxy.
Real tall Navajo.
She ran away
from home but would
call her mom almost every day.
Must have spent a fortune
in long-distance.
Shimá!
I remember that word.
Shimá.
[bottle clinks]
[exhales deeply] Sonny.
Sonny?
[door clicks]
[dramatic music]
♪♪
Sonny?
[car horn honks]
♪♪
[quietly] Hi. yeah. I want to leave
a message for Joe Leaphorn.
He's in room 21.
Tell him to meet Chee at
2113 Normandie.
apartment 527.
Yeah. tell him I found Leroy.
[knocks]
Leroy.
Billie. you in there?
[tense music]
♪♪
[sniffs]
[gasps sharply]
[sighs]
[breathing raggedly]
[grunts]
[muffled wheezing from bathroom]
[groans]
[continues wheezing from bathroom]
♪♪
[wheezing]
[door creaks]
♪♪
[grunts]
[gun clicks]
Who the fuck are you?
[intense music]
[soft tense music]
♪♪